TITLE: Apps built with the bunq API that we love! URL: https://medium.com/bunq-developers-corner/apps-built-with-the-bunq-api-that-we-love-f7f1c5a8b9c0?source=collection_home---4------10----------------------- Apps built with the bunq API that we love! -- 1 Listen Share Ever since opening up our API to the world, we have been amazed to see how many brilliant applications our coder community has built. We want to take this opportunity to thank you for the creativity and ingenuity that you bring to our platform and our users.❤️ Together, we are pushing innovation in the world of banking to make life easy for everyone! As a gesture of gratitude, we would like to feature some of your recent creations that our community has enjoyed or, we believe, will enjoy. Here we go!🎢 bunq Discord bot We all love sausage and bread and apparently, so does Thom! Using his bunq Discord bot, you will always know how many Frikandelbroodjes (Sausage rolls 😃) you could buy with your remaining balance. th0mk/BunqDiscordBot This Dutch Discord bot shows you how much money you have left on one account and tells you how many ‘Frikandelbroodjes’… github.com bunq Dart Prefer using Dart when building apps and want to make one using the bunq API? Jeremiah Ogbomo built a helper. 🌈 jogboms/bunq.dart You can't perform that action at this time. You signed in with another tab or window. You signed out in another tab or… github.com Jarbunq Stay motivated to sport 🏃🚴and never pay invoices manually again with jarbunq by Igor Ramadas. igoramadas/jarbunq Jarbunq is a Node.js / TypeScript based service to automate tasks on your bunq account(s). This is a personal… github.com bunq-flow Make automated smart budgeting a part of your life with bunq-flow by Bodhi Mulders. BeMacized/bunq-flow Simple Node application that automates payments based on a set of rules using the Bunq API, for budgeting purposes… github.com bunq <> Apple Watch integration Do you have an Apple watch and don’t see your bunq balance on it but want to? Follow Noah Van Es’s tutorial to set up a connection between your bunq account and your favorite wrist device. noahvanes/bunq-python-server The purpose of this project is to easily set up a webserver that is connected to your bunq account. Currently, this… github.com Have an app you’d like to share with the community? Submit your apps to bunq Apps using this form. No need to think about logos or unnecessary details. Just share your work with the community via bunq Apps so fellow bunqers can find all the bunq projects in one place.