TITLE: bunq API update: PSD2 endpoints + impact on existing integrations URL: https://medium.com/bunq-developers-corner/bunq-api-update-psd2-endpoints-impact-on-existing-integrations-8eb88eb58745?source=collection_home---4------22----------------------- bunq API update: PSD2 endpoints + impact on existing integrations -- Listen Share Yess! We are delighted to announce that the updated, now PSD2-compliant bunq API is on production! 🌈✨ What’s new We accept eIDAS certificates Registered PSD2-licensed service providers can access live bunq accounts. Not without the permission of the account owner, of course. ;) About eIDAS certificatesUse or test them with our SDKsRegister as a PSD2 user with our SDKsSample implementation About eIDAS certificates Use or test them with our SDKs Register as a PSD2 user with our SDKs Sample implementation OAuth roles and permissions OAuth is the only authentication method available for PSD2-regulated use of the API. We encourage you to implement it in your applications. The permissions that you can request via OAuth as a PSD2 service provider are determined by your role. The bunq API supports 3 types of PSD2 user accounts. As an Account Information Service Provider (AISP), you can do the following: As a Payment Initiation Service Provider (PISP), you can do the following: As a Card Based Payment Instrument Issuer (CBPII), you can do the following: About the bunq account authentication methods and when to use themRegister as a PSD2 user with our SDKsSample implementation About the bunq account authentication methods and when to use them Register as a PSD2 user with our SDKs Sample implementation Monetary account selection When reviewing an authorization request, bunq users can choose which monetary accounts they allow the PSD2-licensed service provider to access. You can get the IBANs of the monetary accounts you are allowed to interact with by listing the available accounts via /user/{userID}/monetary-account. About the types of bunq monetary accounts About the types of bunq monetary accounts Confirmation of funds The new /user/{userID}/confirmation-of-funds endpoint is meant to help CBPIIs verify the funds available on the user’s account are sufficient to cover the to-be-initiated payment. Draft scheduled or recurring payments It is possible to initiate draft scheduled payments by specifying the scheduled date and in the schedule field of /user/{userID}/monetary-account/{monetary-accountID}/draft-payment. You can also create recurring draft scheduled payments by setting the recurring field TRUE. About the types of bunq payments and transactions About the types of bunq payments and transactions Everything else Impact on live integrations All the 200+ endpoints that you have integrated your apps with are remaining available. As a PSD2 party that has a working integration with the bunq API and is seeking to switch to the PSD2-compliant version of it, all you need to do is just the following: Details on how the bunq PSD2 flow works Details on how the bunq PSD2 flow works Stay up to date with our API updates and developments. Subscribe to bunq Developers’ Corner and never miss a story of ours! ❤