TITLE: How to handle the bunq API rate limits URL: https://medium.com/bunq-developers-corner/how-to-handle-the-bunq-api-rate-limits-cb744659a35e?source=collection_home---4------23----------------------- How to handle the bunq API rate limits -- Listen Share It makes sense to prepare for potential future hitting rate limits of any API you are using when writing an application for at least three reasons: This, of course, concerns the bunq API too. In this article, we outline the common reasons why your application must be hitting our rate limits and share tips for dealing with them. bunq API limits Why we have rate limits Our grounds for setting rate limits are, by and large, similar to your reasons for preparing to take steps in case you exceed them. What happens when your app encounters the bunq API rate limits The bunq API has hard limits. Once you encounter one of them, it returns an HTTP 429 error and times out the request for 30 seconds. Here is an example HTTP 429 response one gets when they reach a bunq API rate limit: Our API allows for the following number of requests per IP address per endpoint: Common causes of rate limiting issues Let’s look at some typical cases that our users have faced. You will most likely hit a rate limit if… … you create a session for every API call Scenario Your app is scaling in users. (If that’s your case, congrats! 😃) You check accounts every night for missing data, just in case. This has worked seamlessly until now. All of a sudden, you have started to get rate limited, and your users miss transactions. You damn the rate limits &$!#%. Solution Reuse session tokens. Though they live for a week by default, it is the auto logout time you set in the application that determines when your sessions expire. … you need to calculate the monetary account balance Scenario Your app makes payments. You want to calculate the balance but sending two GET and one POST calls to the same endpoint for one account near simultaneously makes fetching data for that account uncomfortable. It also slows down the testing process. Solution You can bypass this inconvenience by using the /user/{userId}/event endpoint along with the /user/{userID}/monetary-account/{monetary-accountID}/payment endpoint. Mocking should help you with the testing. You could also use the balance_after_mutation field of the Payment object to avoid calculating the balance yourself. It is available in both the event and payment endpoints. … you send calls with expired API context Scenario Your integration has been working like a dream. You have updated the version of the SDK, and now you occasionally encounter rate limits when listing account information, the traffic remaining the same. Solution Check if the context files that you are using aren’t outdated. If they are, the SDK will reset the session for every call, which leads to you hitting the /session-server request limit. To fix this, make sure to save the new session context or export the JSON and save to it the database. We are planning to implement the retry mechanism in our SDKs. Until then, you can use this example. We are planning to implement the retry mechanism in our SDKs. Until then, you can use this example. Share how you are working with our rate limits in the comments section below. Also, please let us know if there are any cases we should have mentioned but forgot to cover in the article.