TITLE: Support us for the Developer Portal Awards 2020! URL: https://medium.com/bunq-developers-corner/support-us-for-the-developer-portal-awards-2020-1b2fdba0eb7b?source=collection_home---4------0----------------------- Support us for the Developer Portal Awards 2020! -- Listen Share We’ve got some exciting news! bunq Developer just got nominated for the Developer Portal Awards 2020. We’re honored to be here, and would appreciate your help to go for the big win! More than 5 years ago, we launched the first really open banking API so anyone could automate their payments and savings, the way they want or need to. We’ve recently introduced to you bunq Developer, your one-stop place for everything you need to automate banking for yourself, build apps for everyone, and even market fintech apps for the world! Here are just a couple of the amazing things you can easily do with bunq Developer: Recent additions As bunq always grows with your needs, so does bunq Developer. Here are some of the latest updates to the portal that make your life easier: …and more is coming! And the best Developer Portal Awards goes to… We’re hoping you can help us go for the win! We’ve been nominated in the following categories: 🏆 Best Accessible Devportal Here are developer portals that take the initiative to make their APIs and documentation accessible to all possible users, regardless of disability type or severity of impairment. With bunq Developer, everyone can make a free developer account. You can then easily create test users and find everything you need to test out the 200+ endpoints of the banking API, including the login credentials. No matter where you are from or how old you are, bunq Developer is open to you! 🏆 Best API Business Model Here you find developer portals that found an innovative way to present their business models: they manage to increase the API’s perceived value through appropriate and clear descriptions, and build trust through a genuine approach to legal topics such as policies and terms of use. bunq is nominated because we keep it simple and transparent! 🏆 Best Community Spotlight & Outreach Here are developer portals with creative solutions or initiatives to show developers that their work is appreciated. Portals with great community sections where developers can share knowledge and build connections. This one’s about you! bunq deeply cares about its developer community — we know our heroes and we welcome everyone to share their ideas and experience on our forum. Our support is competent — our moderators are developers! We organize hackathons and events sheerly driven by our joint belief in building a better future. 🏆 Best Overall Developer Portal Every nominee automatically runs for the Best Overall Developer Portal prize. Two portals will be selected in the end — one by the community and one by the Awards Jury. You can support us with just a few clicks and together we may be in the spotlight this year! Make sure to cast your vote before the 31st of October for it to be valid.