TITLE: Tutorial: View your bunq accounts on the Apple Watch using the bunq API (complication included!) URL: https://medium.com/bunq-developers-corner/tutorial-view-your-bunq-accounts-on-the-apple-watch-using-the-bunq-api-complication-included-3c3459180c58?source=collection_home---4------14----------------------- Tutorial: View your bunq accounts on the Apple Watch using the bunq API (complication included!) -- 5 Listen Share One of the many features that makes bunq stand out as a bank is that they not only offer their own banking app, but also expose their services through a public API. This makes it possible to also develop and connect other applications with access to our bank accounts. Since bunq does not (yet) offer an Apple Watch app, in this post we are going to use this API to show the balance of our bank accounts directly on our Apple Watch. How is this going to work? The basic idea is pretty simple here: we are going to use a free iOS/Apple Watch app called Numerics. Numerics is a dashboard app: it can pull data from different sources (e.g., the current price of a certain stock, the current number of likes for your Facebook page, the current number of views of your latest YouTube video, etc.) and display them all together on a single page/list on your iPhone and Apple Watch. Most notably, it also allows you to pull data from a custom source, as long as this source is a webserver that serves data in a specific JSON-format. On Apple Watch, it also comes with a complication which can show the data from one of your data sources. For this tutorial, we explain how to create a data source in Numerics that shows the balance of a given bank account (of course, you can then later create more than one, since we typically also have multiple bank accounts with bunq). Note that Numerics has both a free version as well as a paid premium subscription (currently at €9.99/month). Luckily, for this tutorial we do not need any of the premium features, so the free version will suffice (although it will limit us to only showing at most 3 data sources / bank accounts). However, we can’t let Numerics connect directly to the public bunq API: we need a single URL that gives us the data in exactly the JSON-format that is expected by Numerics, and we can only authenticate requests made to that URL by Numerics using HTTP Basic Auth. Therefore, we will setup our own webserver which will act as a ‘middle-man’ between Numerics and the bunq API: we will let Numerics send requests to this server, which will then use the bunq API to get the data and responds in the format expected by Numerics. Excited? Let’s get started! 🚀 Setting up the webserver Note: if you have already read this excellent tutorial, then notice that what we are doing here is pretty similar! The main differences are that (1) our webserver uses Python instead of C#, (2) we output the response in the JSON-format expected by Numerics, (3) we use HTTP Basic Auth to authenticate the requests (since it seems that Numerics only supports that) and (4) we will not setup the webserver locally, but rather use a free service (PythonAnywhere) to host our webserver in the cloud. Also, note that this is not a tutorial for aspiring developers on how to use the bunq API (the webserver makes use of bunq’s Python SDK, as you could probably guess), therefore I will not explain the code that I provide (although the project’s code is extremely simple, small and therefore very self-explanatory 🙂). One of the important questions we need to ask ourselves first is where we are going to host our ‘middle-man’ webserver. Preferably, we require that this webserver is always available (i.e., it should always be running and accessible through the internet, not just our local network). One option would be to host it on our own machine (such as a Raspberry Pi!), leave it powered on and use port forwarding to make it accessible from outside our network. However, to keep the hardware and setup requirements for this tutorial minimal, we’ll go for a simpler and easier option: host it on a (free) third-party cloud platform. We can choose from multiple providers that offer such free platforms, such as Google’s App Engine, Amazon’s AWS Lambda, Heroku, PythonAnywhere and so on. For this tutorial, I’ll pick PythonAnywhere because it’s free tier has practically no limits for what we want to do and because — in my opinion — it’s quite a cool and user-friendly platform, especially for beginners. Configuring PythonAnywhere Note: I’m mostly just repeating the instructions you can find here, along with a few extra steps to setup the link between the webserver and your bunq account. Start by creating a new (free) account on PythonAnywhere. On your PythonAnywhere dashboard, then select ‘New Console > $ Bash’ to open a terminal on the server. Then download the webserver’s source code: git clone https://github.com/noahvanes/bunq-python-server We’ll need to install some dependencies to make this project work. In Python, we usually do this by first creating a virtual environment for our project (isolating the installed dependencies from other projects and specifying a particular version of Python to use for that project, in our case Python 3.6) and then installing all the dependencies listed in the file requirements.txt. For this step, enter the following commands one-by-one in the terminal: requirements.txt cd bunq-python-server # first, navigate to the project's foldermkvirtualenv --python=/usr/bin/python3.6 my-virtualenvpip3 install -r requirements.txt Great! Now that the source code and dependencies are installed, we need to configure the webserver to link it with your bunq account. For this, we will use the script bunq-setup.py. Enter the following command in the terminal, replacing <api-key> with an API key you generated for your bunq account in the bunq app and <password> with a top secret password of your choosing: bunq-setup.py <api-key> <password> python3 bunq_setup.py <api-key> <password> --proxy-url proxy.server:3128 --timezone Europe/Amsterdam --description pythonanywhere-webserver Note about the other options: the --proxy-url setting is only necessary because we are deploying on PythonAnywhere, which uses a proxy server for all outgoing requests on our webserver; the--timezone setting has been set to Europe/Amsterdam here to ensure that you get correct timestamps in the responses, but this should really be changed to your local timezone (see here for a list of all timezones); the --description setting doesn’t really matter: it just gives a name to your API key connection, so feel free to change this if you want). --proxy-url --timezone --description Finally, we need to tell PythonAnywhere how to launch our webserver. Go back to the dashboard and choose ‘Add a new web app’. Then, choose manual configuration and select Python version 3.6. On the configuration page, you’ll need to make a few changes. Under the ‘Code’ section, ensure that both the ‘source code’ and ‘working directory’ folder point to the root folder of the cloned project (i.e., /home/<your-user-name-here>/bunq-python-server if you just cloned the project where I told you to 🙂). Under the ‘Virtualenv’ section, enter the name of the virtual environment you created earlier (again, just my-virtualenv if you literally copied the terminal snippets earlier in this tutorial). Then, the final step is to edit WSGI configuration file, which you can find in the ‘Code’ section: delete everything in this file and copy/paste the following code, replacing <your-source-code-dir> with the root folder of the project (i.e., the same one you entered under ‘source code’ and ‘working directory’). /home/<your-user-name-here>/bunq-python-server my-virtualenv <your-source-code-dir> import syspath = '<your-source-code-dir>'if path not in sys.path: sys.path.append(path)from flask_app import app as application # noqa Don’t forget to save your changes! You are now ready to launch your webserver: just press ‘Reload <your-username>.pythonanywhere.com’ at the top of your configuration page of your new web app, and you should now have a webserver running that is accessible through that URL! 🌎 🎊 <your-username>.pythonanywhere.com Using the webserver To see if everything works, we’ll test the webserver by sending it a request. You can do this in a user-friendly way with an app such as Postman, or we can just fire up a terminal on our own machine to see if everything works. In particular, we can enter the following command in the terminal: curl -u :<your-password> https://<your-url>/accounts | python -m json.tool where — of course — you first replace <your-password> with the password you chose earlier (when running bunq_setup.py) and <your-url> with the URL that PythonAnywhere generated for you. You should get a nice looking overview of all your active bunq accounts. For the next step, write down the id number of every account you want to include on your Apple Watch! <your-password> bunq_setup.py <your-url> id Configuring Numerics The last step is pretty easy: in the Numerics app, we’ll add a widget for each bunq account we want to include on Apple Watch (remember, using the free version of Numerics, we’ll be limited to only 3). Click the ‘+’ icon to add a widget and select the ‘Custom JSON — Basic Auth’ service. Then choose ‘Label from authenticated JSON data’. Here, enter the following configuration: https://<your-url>/accounts/<account-id>/numerics <your-url> <account-id> id You can of course play around here and also change stuff like the background color (e.g., using a different color for each account), which is also used when showing the account on the Apple Watch; or you can add a phrase to Siri to ask for your account balance using your voice (although that would be pretty useless now: since recently, the official bunq app already integrates with Siri). Note: a fun extension might be to change the color based on the balance of your account (e.g., from red to orange to green, depending on whether your balance for that account is running low or not). This can easily be done by adding a ‘color’ property to our JSON responses, which overrides the color chosen in the app. Repeat this step for up to 3 bank accounts you want to add. In the Numerics app on Apple Watch, you should now see a list of those accounts and their balance. Best of all, we get the complication for free: just select a bank account in the list, long press it, then choose ‘Set as Complication’ and get your account balance directly on your favorite watch face. Pretty awesome! 🌈 Closing thoughts A very minor inconvenience — if you didn’t notice already — is that the free tier of PythonAnywhere shuts down our webserver after 3 months; so, every 3 months, you’ll need to hit that ‘Refresh’ button to keep your webserver alive. Notice that this ‘middle-man’ webserver we have just set up could also be used for other purposes. Currently, it was set up with only one use-case in mind: serving JSON-responses that can be parsed by Numerics, so that we can view the balance of our bank accounts directly on the Apple Watch. However, we now have an always-running webserver available over the internet that we can communicate with using the standard HTTPS and JSON protocols to directly retrieve information about our bank accounts. This means that the webserver could easily be reused for other applications as well. For instance, just as in the tutorial I mentioned earlier, one could directly reuse this webserver to get access to the balance of your accounts from Siri Shortcuts. Currently, I don’t really have any other use-cases in mind (also note that — if necessary — it should be pretty easy to extend the functionality of the webserver), but of course, I am only being limited by my imagination here 😉. Anyway, thank you for taking your time to read this tutorial! My initial plan was to just set this up for myself (I was too late for the API contest anyway 😉), but I found it too awesome and too easy to set up to not share it with other bunq users. Let’s hope that you share that opinion after giving this a try!